**14.8** Distinguish between the terms "function template" and  "function-template specialization".

Function templates are overloaded functions for different types where the operations are identical for all types.
Function-template specializations are the separate source-code functions that the compiler generates to handle each function call appropriately.

**14.9** Explain which is more like a setencil - a class template or a class-template specialization?

Class templates are like stencils out of which we trace shapes; class-template specializations are like the separate tracings that all have the same shape, but could, for example, be drawn in different colours.

**14.10** What's the relationship between function templates and overloading?

Overloaded functions normally perform _similar_ or _identical_ operations on _different_ types of data. If the operations are _identcal_ for all types, they can be expressed more compactly and conveniently using function templates.

**14.11** Why might you choose to use a function template instead of a macro?

Macros created with the preprocessor directive `#define` can be used in C to perform the same task as a function template, but they can have serious side effects and do not enable the compiler to perform type checking.

**14.12** What performance problem can result from using function templates and class templates?

Multiple function-template specializations and class-template specializations are instantiated in a program at compile time, despite the fact that the templates are written only once. These copies can consume considerable memory.

**14.13** The complier performs a matching process to determine which function-template specialization to call when a function is invoked. Under what circumstances does an attempt to make a match resul in a compile error?

A compile error occurs if no matchinf cuntion definition can be found for a particular unction call or if there are multiple matches that the compiler considers ambiguous.

**14.14** Why is it appropriate to refer to a class template as a parameterized type?

Class templates require one or more _type parameters_ to specify how to customize a "generic class" template to form a class-template specialization.

**14.15** Explain why a C++ program would use the statement

```
Array< Employee > workerList(100);
```

The 100 is probably being used to specify the size of the pointer inside the Array container at compile time. This avoids the execution-time overhead of using `new` to create the space dynamically. It also avoids the potentially fatal execution-time error if `new` is unable to optain the needed memory.

**14.16** Review your answer to Exercise 14.15. Explain why a C++ program might use the statement

```
Array< Employee > workerList;
```

We might want the flexibility to dynamically build a very large array, but this would require careful handling of insert and append operations.

**14.17** Explain the use of the following notation in a C++ program:

```
template< typename T > Array< T >::Array(int s)
```

This is a constructor template. The `template< typename T>` specifies that we are creating a function template. The `Array< T >::Array(int s)` is the constructor statement using T as a placeholder for the type, and s as a constructor argument.

**14.18** Why might you use a nontype parameter with a class template for a container such as an array or stack?

Non-type template parameters can have default arguments and are treated as consts. The classs definition might contain a `private` data member with an array declaration. In addition, a type parameter can specify a default type.


